# Assignment 1 - Shader Live Coding

I initially wanted to create something with a space theme. I chose a [lofi synth song](https://freesound.org/people/Seth_Makes_Sounds/sounds/680134/) that paired with this idea very well. On the technical side, I wanted to explore different modes of interaction such as mouse position and audio frequencies. The space effect was created by subdividing the screen into a 70x70 grid and drawing very small circles into each of the regions. I also incorporated an inverted circular region in the center of the screen by subtracting a circle from the grid. 

I also limited myself to a color pallet of just red, green, and blue dots. Each of the colors represents a different technical aspect that I wanted to incorporate. Green was controlled by an oscillator using a sin function to move the dots back and forth along the x axis. Red was controlled by the mouse position. I created a matrix that stored both mouse position and screen position of a point. I then multiplied the determinant of the matrix by the determinant of its transpose with a scalar to determine the size of the red points. After analysing the function I now realize that this is equivalent to the determinant squared times a scalar. Blue was controlled by audio frequencies. Since WGSL requires the use of vec3f when taking the cross product of two vectors, I create a vec3 from the position vec2 with a dummy value in the middle. I then take a series of functions to warp the output until it creates a disk-like object that is controlled by the audio.

The feedback that I received from this project was very positive. My peer enjoyed the uncommenting of the code instead of typing or creating a through-composed piece. They also thought that the piece was very calming and unsettling at the same time. They said, "It felt like walking into a store with a backdoor, and the backdoor was a speakeasy." This matched my expectations since the music that I chose was very calming and the visuals that I created were very unsettling in my opinion. 
